can you get paid just for posting reals
well you can but it's a little bit
tricky in today's episode I'm going to
explain to you the reals bonuses program
and how you can get paid just for
posting on both Facebook and
Instagram for well over a decade YouTube
has had a revenue share program where
they split their revenue with the
creators who make them said Revenue by
posting content on YouTube a few years
ago Instagram rolled out a similar
program called the reals bonuses program
where essentially you would get paid
based off the performance of your reals
unfortunately the pay-per-view scale was
slightly lower than that on YouTube but
people were able to make up to
$35,000 per month just from posting
reels on Instagram the program lasted
for a little bit over a year and then in
March of 2023 it was announced that they
were shutting down the program now they
did honor any existing or ongoing
payments so no one had their money taken
away from them but the ability to earn
from your reals views after that was
taken away now since then Instagram has
rolled out a few new programs and so has
Facebook and so I want to break down
what those are for you in today's
episode walk you through how you can
earn unlock or become eligible for
certain programs and there's actually
even a brand new program that was
announced in August of 2024 that I want
to let you know about and down in the
description of this podcast there's
actually a link to apply to be a part of
the program first let's talk about
Instagram reals bonuses which again are
the program where you can get paid for
the views that you're getting on your
Instagram reals that is not currently
available on Instagram at least not on a
wide scale there are some creators who
have been invited to a very small scale
program that does pay you based off the
views you're getting on your reels but
it's not widespread like it was back in
2022 in the beginning of 20123 now
currently at the time of recording this
there are two ways that you can get paid
based off of basically just posting on
Instagram and those two ways are adson
profile and adson reals adson profile is
kind of a deceptive name because really
it should be called adson profile feed
and that's actually what it is called in
your Instagram settings but most people
just refer to it as ads on profile and
essentially what this looks like is that
if someone stumbles on your profile and
they're scrolling through some of the
posts that you've made to your profile
just kind of you know going through
anything that you've recently posted
there can be an advertisement that
appears between your photos so when they
look at your grid they won't see any
advertisements but if they're scrolling
through the individual posts on your
feed then they might see an ad pop up
between two of the posts so that's ads
on profile and then there's also adson
reals adson reals is a kind of
interesting case where adson reals is
either one of two things it either means
that someone watches your reel and then
at the end of your reel a short ad will
play or ads on reals could mean that
there's a small little Banner added to
the bottom of your ad kind of like how
it used to be on YouTube where there'd
be like a little you know Banner box
down here at the bottom of the screen
and people could click on that ad now if
you do turn on ads on reals you as the
Creator do have the control to block
certain companies or certain niches or
industries from promoting and running
their ads on your reels however it's not
super precise with the targeting both of
these programs though I do want to say
they're not super great
last month for example I received 6.5
million views on my Instagram alone and
from that I received $8 from adson reals
and $14 from adson profile so in total I
made $22 for getting 6.5 million views
so as you can see it's not a super
lucrative program but these are two ways
that you could make a few extra bucks
each month with that being said though
Instagram's Big Brother Facebook is
really beefing up their monetization and
they're committing to paying creators
more at least they say they are
according to a recent announcement from
Facebook they say that since they
announced Facebook funded monetization
back in 2017 more than 4 million content
creators have earned money on Facebook
and in just the last year Facebook has
paid creators more than two billion with
a B $2 billion for their videos their
reels and their text posts now this is
exactly where the exciting news comes
from because while there is adson
profile on Facebook and adson reals on
Facebook
the new thing that Facebook is rolling
out is reals bonuses specifically for
Facebook reels and really to simplify
this whole thing which Facebook is
Infamous for never doing they have put
all of these different terms adson
profile adson reals reals bonuses all
this stuff under one umbrella term that
they are now calling Facebook content
monetization and currently this program
is in beta I say currently because at
the time of recording this in October of
2024 they are inviting 1 million
creators for the month of October and
they're going to continue inviting
people for the remainder of 2024 but
they do plan on making this open and
available worldwide in 2025 so good news
if you're watching this in 2025 it's
either very soon or it might already be
available for you what's also very
exciting about this program that you
might have caught when I mentioned it
just a moment ago is that this is not
just going to be for reals this is going
to be for reals videos photos text posts
and even they plan on rolling this out
to stories as well so basically Facebook
now wants to pay creators for any kind
of content that they create on Facebook
and I'm personally optimistic that they
are testing this on Facebook before
rolling it out to Instagram as well but
only time will tell now of course the
number one thing that everyone will be
asking and everyone will be worried
about is how do you actually qualify
what are the criteria how do you get to
be a part of this program well like I
said for the majority of 2024 it's going
to be invite only but they are invite
invting a lot of people they plan on
inviting a million people in October of
2024 alone I would assume that that
number is going to either stay the same
or increase for November and December
and then hopefully by early 2025 it will
be available worldwide but how do you
actually get invited there is a way that
you can increase your odds of being
invited and this is something that
Facebook hasn't really done before and
it's that they're allowing us to apply
for the program so down in the link
below this podcast or below this YouTube
video if you're watching over on YouTube
there's actually a form where you can
ask to be invited to the program now I
don't know if this guarantees that
you're going to be invited I don't know
if this increases your odds
significantly or just a little bit but
if you want to be a part of this program
it definitely doesn't hurt your odds to
apply besides just applying what are the
other things that you can do to get
invited or once this program is
available worldwide how can you meet the
criteria to make sure that you can join
this Facebook content monetization
program well the things that are pretty
much always a part of Facebook's
monetization policies is number one you
have to be 18 years or older number two
you have to live in a country where the
program is available now historically
there have been numerous countries where
reals bonuses have been available or
different Facebook monetization has been
available usually it starts in the US
and usually its greatest penetration or
its greatest percentage of users with
access is in the US followed by other
countries like Canada Japan the UK
Brazil and Australia but of course it
varies sometimes there's random
countries sometimes they do random tests
in Italy or in some European country or
some random country that you might not
even expect so even if you're from a
country that in the past hasn't gotten
access to monetization just make sure
you keep checking and I'll continue
trying to update the description of this
podcast as well with all the countries
that are currently involved but just be
aware that it usually starts in the
United States and then spreads to a few
other countries before going worldwide
the third criteria that you must meet is
that you have no content violations you
haven't had any post taken down whether
you think it was right or wrong
Instagram doesn't really care all they
care about is whether or not you've had
a post or a comment or a reel taken down
if you have then the likelihood of being
invited or being a part of these
monetization programs is definitely
lower and then besides just content
violations they also have monetization
policies which include you can't talk
about things like gambling or alcohol or
drug use you can't have miners as the
primary people in your content even if
you're over the age of 18 so there's
quite a few things that you just need to
be aware of but generally for most
people most content creators you're
going to be just fine it's really just a
matter of waiting for it to be rolled
out to you in your area of the world and
really just rolled out on Facebook or
Instagram in general now of course you
can actually check your monetization
status it's relatively easy to do so on
Instagram just go to your settings then
tap on the button that says Creator
tools and controls or the one that says
professional tools and controls or it
might even say business tools and
controls but you'll click on that and
then down towards the bottom of the page
you'll see something that says
monetization status if you click on that
it will show you whether or not you're
in good standing basically you want to
make sure that you have green check
marks and not red X's if you do have a
red X you'll be able to tap on it and
see what the violation was and you can
even dispute it right from there overall
I hope that these programs are a move in
the right direction it's definitely not
a secret that Instagram doesn't pay as
well as YouTube so I hope that these new
monetization opportunities are going to
make it a more accessible for more
people and B actually paying out more
Revenue because Facebook and meta and
Instagram they make a lot of money and a
lot of us creators like I said earlier I
got 6 million views in the last month
and made $22 so I'm not saying that they
should pay me hundreds of thousands of
dollars but even just a 100 bucks would
be nice so I hope that in the near
future Facebook Instagram and just meta
as a whole pays out better I also have
heard some Insider rumors that they are
working on monetization options for
Threads as well because of course
threads falls under the meta umbrella
and so if this program goes well on
Facebook I could see it to be very
likely that monetization options roll
out very soon for Instagram and even
threads to speak on a super broad note
before we conclude I think it is so
important and I hope that my 6 million
views to $22 ratio has been eviden to
you that while being a content creator
can be very fun and rewarding and
building a big audience can be very
engaging and and rewarding and it can
really satisfy you and fill you up at
the end of the day creators don't really
make that much money there's a reason
why every one of the biggest creators on
the planet whether it's Kim Kardashian
or Mr Beast or Logan Paul or KSI or any
of these people they have all ventured
into the world of business as well being
a content creator can be very rewarding
but it's usually not very rewarding in
the monetary sense there's a reason why
if you want to provide for yourself or
your family financially the best option
is you usually to create a business to
create some sort of brand even a
personal brand rather than just relying
on these platforms to pay you but
anyways I'll get off my soap box I hope
you enjoyed today's episode if you did
don't forget to subscribe for next
week's episode and I'll see you then and
as always happy networking
[Music]